Update the dialog documentation with missing information (#108)
websight-io/docs: docs/docs/developers/development/dialogs/index.md

WebSight CMS delivers set of ready to use components, see subsections of this documentation for details.

## Dialog structure

> Each dialog can be build out of two element types:
> - containers - used to achieve proper structure of fields in dialog, examples: container, tab, tabs, include
> - fields - used to input values via dialog, examples: textfield, numberfield, pathPicker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each dialog can be build out of two element types:

- containers - used to achieve proper structure of fields in dialog, examples: container, tab, tabs, include
- fields - used to input values via dialog, examples: textfield, numberfield, pathPicker
```

Reviewer: the new line is needed to get the formatting as bullets

WebSight CMS delivers set of ready to use components, see subsections of this documentation for details.

## Dialog structure
Each dialog can be build out of two element types:

> - containers - used to achieve proper structure of fields in dialog, examples: container, tab, tabs, include

Reviewer 2: include is not container, no?

![Dialog example tab2](dialog-example-tab2.png)

## Data structure

> All fields within the dialog have the `name` property, which defines the property’s name, under which values are saved in JCR. What is significant, the data is flattened, which means it does not matter if a particular field is in a nested structure (like tabs) or not. Properties are always saved under the same node.

Reviewer: the data is flattened - not clear to me, maybe we could add a sample?

## Validation
Validation in dialog fields is used to verify if the value meets the criteria of the particular field. There are two levels:

### FrontEnd validation

> Front End validation is done by Atlaskit by default, if the submitted value is obviously incorrect, like a non-number value in NumberField. For details please see: https://atlassian.design/components
> ![](dialog-frontend-validation.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Front End validation is done by Atlaskit by default, if the submitted value is obviously incorrect, like a non-number value in NumberField. You can find more details [here](https://atlassian.design/components).
![](dialog-frontend-validation.png)
```

### BackEnd validation
WebSight supports the validation of dialog values on BackEnd side. If the value is incorrect, then it won’t be saved and the dialog can’t be submitted. The author will see a proper error message.
![](dialog-backend-validation.png)

## Show/hide dialog fields
By default, all dialog components are visible, but there is a possibility to hide them.

### Context
To show or hide a particular field depending on dialog context you can use a `ws:disallowedContext` parameter.

```json
"ws:disallowedContext": ["edit"]
```

To hide an element in dialog, the request from Front-End which fetches it has to contain the additional parameter `context`. If the context value matches one of `ws:dissallowedContext` values, then the field won’t be rendered.

### Conditions
To show or hide a particular field depends on other fields’ state you can use a `ws:display` node.
This node should contain children defining conditions to show the element. If the component has such a child node it’s hidden by default. It’s required to fulfill at least one condition to show the component.

> Each condition should have two properties:
> - sourceName - with the name of the component whose value would be checked
> - values - with one or more values. At least one of them should match the source field value to fulfill the condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each condition should have two properties:

- sourceName - with the name of the component whose value would be checked
- values - with one or more values. At least one of them should match the source field value to fulfill the condition.
```

> Example conditions configurations:
> - with single value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example conditions configurations:

- with single value:
```

```json
"ws:display": {
  "condition": {
    "sourceName": "fieldName",
    "values": "option1"
  }
}
```
- with multiple values:
```json
"ws:display": {
  "condition": {
    "sourceName": "fieldName",
    "values": ["option1", "option2", "option3"]
  }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: please check if formatted properly on preview - we may need to indent the text

Author: <img width="880" alt="Screenshot 2022-12-06 at 10 30 10" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109656376/205873404-192a10b0-2f18-433b-b5ef-044880d292f8.png">
I think it looks fine.

Example dialog definition:

```json
{
  "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/dialog",
  "hideall": {
    "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/toggle",
    "name": "hideall",
    "label": "Hide all other elements"
  },
  "container": {
    "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/container",
    "showrequiredfield": {
      "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/toggle",
      "name": "showrequiredfield",
      "label": "Show required field"
    },
    "requiredfield": {
      "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/textfield",
      "name": "requiredfield",
      "label": "Required field",
      "required": true,
      "ws:display": {
        "condition": {
          "sourceName": "showrequiredfield",
          "values": "true"
        }
      }
    },
    "ws:display": {
      "condition": {
        "sourceName": "hideall",
        "values": "false"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
![](dialog-show-hide-1.png)
![](dialog-show-hide-2.png)

> ![](dialog-show-hide-3.png)

Reviewer: let's add some comment on the images and describe what is presented/what case is visible

## Default state

> Some components allow defining a default state. E.g. checkbox can be checked by default, and select can have the default option. It is significant to keep using those components with the same default state used in backend models.

Reviewer: can we add an example how to set the default value?

![Dialog example tab2](dialog-example-tab2.png)

## Data structure

> All fields within the dialog have the `name` property, which defines the property’s name, under which values are saved in JCR. What is significant, the data is flattened, which means it does not matter if a particular field is in a nested structure (like tabs) or not. Properties are always saved under the same node.

Reviewer 2: - mention that name can be relative path like 'subnode/property-name'
- mention about multifield - in this case values are saved in structure

## Validation
Validation in dialog fields is used to verify if the value meets the criteria of the particular field. There are two levels:

### FrontEnd validation
Front End validation is done by Atlaskit by default, if the submitted value is obviously incorrect, like a non-number value in NumberField. You can find more details [here](https://atlassian.design/components).
![](dialog-frontend-validation.png)

### BackEnd validation

> WebSight supports the validation of dialog values on BackEnd side. If the value is incorrect, then it won’t be saved and the dialog can’t be submitted. The author will see a proper error message.

Reviewer 2: mention the bundle and interface to use to implment valdators

![](dialog-backend-validation.png)

## Show/hide dialog fields
By default, all dialog components are visible, but there is a possibility to hide them.

### Context
To show or hide a particular field depending on dialog context you can use a `ws:disallowedContext` parameter.

```json
"ws:disallowedContext": ["edit"]
```

> To hide an element in dialog, the request from Front-End which fetches it has to contain the additional parameter `context`. If the context value matches one of `ws:dissallowedContext` values, then the field won’t be rendered.

Reviewer 2: add link to swagger browser tool with rest action api <instace>/apps/apidocs#/apps/websight-dialogs-service/docs/api.html

![Dialog example tab2](dialog-example-tab2.png)

## Data structure
The data structure depends on the `name` property. 

- In the simplest example property value is saved directly as a resource property. 
```json
"title": {
  "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/textfield",
  "label": "Title",
  "name": "title"
}
```
In above example, the `title` is added directly as a resource property.
![Simple data property](dialog-data-simple.png)

- There is also a possibility to manipulate data from other resources by using a path in the `name` property:
```json
"alt": {
  "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/textfield",
  "name": "image/alt",
  "label": "Alt text"
}
```
In above example, the `alt` property is saved as an image property from the header context.
![Child resource property](dialog-data-path.png)

- Another example of manipulating data from other resources is using a multifield. This dialog field `name` property defines a node under which are created other resources with properties defined in the multifield.
```json
"urls": {
  "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/multifield",
  "name": "urls",
  "label": "Footer URLs",

>   "labelField": {

Reviewer 2: maybe we can make this example better? Mutlifield could be Footer links with 2 sub fields: label and url ?

    "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/textfield",
    "name": "label",
    "label": "Label"
  }
}
```
![Multifield resource property](dialog-data-multifield.png)

## Validation
Validation in dialog fields is used to verify if the value meets the criteria of the particular field. There are two levels:

### FrontEnd validation

> Front End validation is done by Atlaskit by default, if the submitted value is obviously incorrect, like a non-number value in NumberField. You can find more details [here](https://atlassian.design/components).

Reviewer 2: We are not using FE validation to avoid displaying validation messages in different way.

WebSight supports the validation of dialog values on BackEnd side. If the value is incorrect, then it won’t be saved and the dialog can’t be submitted. The author will see a proper error message.
![](dialog-backend-validation.png)

#### Custom validator

> To prepare a custom validator you have to extend an `AbstractValidator` form `websight-dialogs-service` as an OSGi `@Component(service = DialogValidator.class)`. 

Reviewer 2: this is invalid. AbstractValidator is our impl. Custm validators must just implement pl.ds.websight.dialog.spi.DialogValidator provided by pl.ds.websight:websight-dialogs-service

    - `error` - return String with a proper message, which will be displayed in Dialog
    - `success` - return null

!!! warning "Important"

    The validator will be applied to a particular field within dialog ONLY when at least one property and resource type matches the configuration. Please see the below example.

---

Let's define number validator:
```java
@Component(service = DialogValidator.class)
public class NumberValueValidator extends AbstractValidator {

  @Override
  public String[] supportedResourceTypes() {
    return new String[]{"wcm/dialogs/components/numberfield"};
  }
  
  @Override
  public String[] supportedResourceTypes() {
    return new String[]{"min", "max"};
  }

  @Override
  public String validate(Resource resource,
          Map<String, Object> propertiesToSave) {
    //validate logic
  }
}
```

- For dialog field:
```json
"number": {
  "sling:resourceType": "wcm/dialogs/components/numberfield",
  "name": "number",
  "label": "Some Number"
}
```
The validator won't be applied because only resource type matches, but none of the properties.
- For dialog field:
```json

> "number": {

Reviewer 2: min and max props are missing in the json

![](dialog-backend-validation.png)

#### Custom validator
To prepare a custom validator you have to extend an `DialogValidator` form `websight-dialogs-service` as an OSGi `@Component(service = DialogValidator.class)`. 

> You have to override the following methods:

Reviewer 2: You have to implement
